Hello and welcome to another recording for Web Applications for Everybody. In this application, I'm going to talk to you about how to use ngrok to turn in your assignment for one of the auto graded assignments. Now the idea is as you're talking to the auto grader, and it's going to talk to this website. And you've built your code on your computer, your computer's here. So it's on localhost, something. So you can see a question mark, guess equals 12, right? So there you go. So your guess is too low, but the problem is that you can't take this URL, localhost. You can't take that URL, and you can't put it into here. Almost done. Got to copy that again. Copy. Paste. So, this server web applications your going to call localhost. The problem is, that localhost doesn't work. Okay, localhost on your computer is in effect firewalled from the rest of the world. So this is not going to work. This is going to blow up. And so it's blowing up terribly, okay? And so, the problem is that, you need to have a real address for this code right here. And that's where ngrok comes in. So we're going to go to ngrok.com. Now ngrok is free, and basically the idea is that, this code is running on your laptop, and your laptop is normally blocked from the world coming in. Your laptop doesn't have a real address, a real domain address, and ngrok makes it temporarily so that your code can be viewed. It doesn't move, it just makes it so it can be viewed. Okay, and so we're going to install the software on your laptop, so that my server can run and talk to yours, just temporarily and then you'll shut that off. So let's go ahead and download this, and download the Windows version of ngrok. Go ahead and open that. So now, I've got ngrok, and I'm going to put this on my desktop so I can use it from the command line and then close this window. And then close this window. Okay, so I'm going to use this in the command lines. I'm going to type command. You can actually put this in any folder that you want. I'm just putting it in my desktop. So here I am in my desktop, and if I do a DIR, you'll see then ngrok is here. So if I say, ngrok http 80. And 80 is the port that you're currently running on, 80 is the default port for a web server. So ngrok will start up and then ngrok will assign us a temporary address. And someone grabbed this temporary address and they copy it and then I'm going to go over here then go to that address. Okay. And so this is the same as what's on my computer. So if I take this URL, HP solutions right here, when I copy that, and I add it to the end of ngrok, it is going to go with a real address now. So what's happened is ngrok has temporarily given you an address. And so now I can take this URL and copy this and go into my auto grader and put it in and now it will run it. And you can see while it's running it, these request response cycles that are going back and forth. Okay. And so that's one of the cool things about ngrok, I can rerun that and you'll see these thing going on. As my server talks to your application, it's doing stuff. Now, I mean it doesn't have certain things, it's got the guess wrong, et cetera, et cetera. So this version isn't the right thing, but the idea is that you can take something on your localhost and then you can export it and get a temporary domain name for the code running on your laptop, and then you can hand that in. And then once you're done with that, once you're all completed, you just come in here and you deconnect yourself back off the Internet. So now, nothing can talk to you. And so, you had this temporary opening for ngrok and now, you just shut it down. Now you'll know, that every time you connect with ngrok, it will give you a different address. So this one I had 2A89 something not 80. So, it gives you a different address every time. So, you'll get used to this, so it will be not too tricky after a while, it'll make a lot more sense to you. Okay. Hope this is help. Cheers.