Hello and welcome to Web Applications for
Everybody. In this, we're going to get started. We're going to learn a little bit
about how to install XAMPP on Windows. I'm using Windows 10, and so I'm going to
go to the Apache Friends' website. And let me make this a little bigger. They got a great video here,
I won't show it right now. So I'm going to download XAMPP for
Windows. So I'm going to click here to make
sure the download gets started. Okay, so it's finished downloading, and
we're going to go ahead, and run it. It's in the folder Downloads,
if we wanted to take a look at that. So, I got my download running. Okay, so it says, install it, don't avoid into the program files because
it said the thing to do is install in a default location which I
will show you is C:\xampp. And I don't need a few of these things. I don't need Tomcat, I don't need Pearl, I don't need Fake SendMail,
so I'm going to do that. I'm going to stick in that default
which is a little inconvenient, but it's nice because it makes
life a little simpler. Okay, so this will take a little while. So now that the installer is finished, I'm actually not going to start the
Control Panel right away because I want to show you how to start it
in case you don't do this. Although, you can just skip ahead and
do that. So I'm going to finish the install,
so the install is now complete. So I'm going to show you
where it's been installed to. So I'm going to go up to my
Windows browser, my local system, go to my C drive, and go into xampp. And so I'm in Windows C:\xampp,
and this is where it's installed. And if I scroll down here, I can find the
XAMPP Control Panel, and I'll start that. Oops. It's asking me for which language. Now, when this first starts up,
it's important if you're being given any security dialogues, that you say
yes to those security dialogues. It's a little tricky so,
this is the control panel. And the things we're doing is the web
server, which is Apache and MySQL. So I'm going to start those. Let me do one thing here. I'm going to right-click,
and pin this to the taskbar. So now this will stay down here, okay? So I'm going to start
the Apache web server. Now watch for red mistakes, or
watch for pop-ups, and it's good. So, I got no red errors, and I think it's because I'm running
on my administrator account. I'm going to start the web server for,
I mean, the database server, and that's running, and so that's really good. You may have some other trouble, I clicked the Stop by mistake. I gotta not hover over them and
then, okay, so there we go,
I gotta get them both started. Okay, so now that they're both started,
I can take a look at the details. And now this is the XAMPP dashboard,
it's running on localhost that means it's running on a web
server that's running on my computer. And a couple of things that we can do is
we can look at the details of our PHP installation. That's nice to have,
we'll look at that in a second. You can also look at phpMyAdmin. And this is how we talk to our database. And so, the fact that this is running,
and successfully connecting, it doesn't getting error messages that means we've
got a very successful installation. This screen here test
a whole bunch of things. Okay, so one of the things that
we need to make sure is look for a variable called display_errors. So let's go find that right here,
and it's on. If it's off, you have to change
the configurations, so it's on. So let me show you how
you would change it. Even though XAMPP seems to
install with this the right way, we'll see in a second, this is something
you want off in production and on when your doing development
to keep you from going crazy. So, you go to this configuration for
Apache, and you pick the PHP configuration. And then you scroll down,
I'm going to use Ctrl+F to find it, display_errors, Find Next. And I'll go down here
until we find it to be on. Now this is exactly describing
what's supposed to be on. For developers, you want this on,
and production, you want it off. If we were going to change this, and
there's a display_startup_errors as well. We would save this, we can save it,
oops come back, come back. We would save this, okay? And then we have to restart
our Apache web server. So we stop it, and
then it would start it back up. And then when we come
back to the Admin page, and then we go to PHPInfo,
and then we look for display_errors, and we see that it's on. So, you shouldn't do
development until that's on. Now we didn't really have to change it,
but I showed you how to change
it if it was wrong, okay? So close some of these windows. We don't need the web page for
downloading anymore. So now we're looking at the dashboard. And so, what I want to do is I want to
write a very, very simple program. So I'm going to start up my Atom text
editor, which I assume you've installed, you can use any text editor you like. I just like Atom because it works
the same on Windows, Mac, and Linux. So, I'm going to make a New File. And I'm going to put some HTML into it. And now I'm save the file, File > Save As. Now I have to put this file
in a particular location, on my C drive > xampp > htdocs. And so this is all the stuff that
this local web server, C:\xampp, Right, C:\xampp\htdocs. So what I'm going to do is, I'm going to make a New Folder right here,
I'm going to call that folder first. Now, you'll be making
lots of folders in here. And then,
I'm going to save this file as index.php. So in the folder, htdocs\first\index.php,
I've got Hello World. Now, I can go over here to this url, and take off dashboard, and
type first/index.php. If I get this right,
I should see that little file, okay? And so, there we go,
now I have created my first little bit of web code that's
coming out through this web server. And so what I want to do now is,
I want to grab some of the code that's got some PHP in it
just to test, not that it's a big deal. I got a little PHP in this handout,
that's the old handout that I'm fixing. Here's this PHP code,
I'm going to copy that, and I'm going here, and
I'm going to, there you go. Paste that in, oops, we need to paste,
Ctrl+A, Ctrl+V, there we go. And it knows it's PHP, and
it's got syntax highlighting. This is flat HTML,
this is switching into PHP and doing some computations,
doing a printout, and the way we go. And so now,
I'm going to save this with Ctrl+S. You always know when that little
blue dot there is you gotta save it, or it won't save correctly. So now, I go back to my browser here, and
I hit Refresh, and it will run that code. And so this part was from the HTML,
this part is running PHP calculation, and there is another paragraph. So, I hope this has been helpful. To get this installed,
you'll be doing a whole bunch with this, you'll be building databases,
you'll be writing PHP code. And so, we just have to get you going,
and get you up and running. Cheers.