Hello and welcome to our screen recording. In this screen recording we're going to install the MAMP software for the Macintosh. So we're going to download from MAMP.info. So I'm going to keep this. I don't quite know why Macintosh is unhappy with that. And so I'm going to go into my downloads folder and here I have this folder and it's Mac Pro 4.1. That's because I downloaded it twice and so I'm just going to click on this. And it opens an installation and I'm just going to accept all of the defaults here. Okay. So it's been installed so let's take a look at where it's at. So if I open finder and I go to my computer and I go into my hard drive and applications and its in MAMP. And I can start MAMP up. And this tells me a bunch. Phpinfo here is really useful because it tells you about the configuration of the system that you've got. I've got Version 7 php and it tells me where the configuration is for this. And so I'm going to go take a look at the configuration file and I am going to make sure, I'm going to do control F and look for display errors. So this is the problem we have when we're doing development with MAMP is the display error is off. And so I want to fix this by editing the initialization file. And you've got to go to the right one. Applications, MAMP, bin, php, php 7.10, php.ini file. And by the way, this is the MAMP control panel, this is your MAMP control panel starts and stops, green dots means that it's running. So I am going to run the Adam text editor and I'm going to open a file. And I'm going to go to my Macintosh applications, MAMP. Let's see. MAMP, bin, php, php 7.1.0, conf, php.ini. Yeah, I found the file. So I open this up and it's a nice old text file, and this is the php configuration and I'm going to scroll down here. You can look for display errors. If you don't do this. There we go. So we're looking for this line. It says display errors equals off. It talks about this, Print out errors as a part of the output. For production websites, do not do this for production sure. We are doing development on our local hard drive and so we want to turn this on because if you don't, you won't always see the errors. I am going to turn up display startup errors and turn those on. So, we want as many error as we can in development. Of course if you're running in production, you would turn these differently. And so what I'm going to do then is I am going to then save this file, command S, I've saved it. Okay. Now the thing you've got to do at this point is you got to stop MAMP and restart it. Stop the servers. Now the servers are stopped. And if I go to refresh this will blow up because it's not there. But when I start these servers, they'll come up. And I'll go to the web start page and I look for php info. We close these tabs now and I should go down and look for display errors on and on. See that's the success. That means that you are successful and that's great. Okay. So let's then also write a simple, little page. So I'm going to make a little file. Hello, from my first web page. Okay. So, we're going to find out where this is at. Localhost 8888 because this is now a web server running on your local computer. And if you go into your finder, it is, well, let me start at the top. Where's my computer? MacBook Pro, hard drive, applications, MAMP, htdocs. That's the folder we want to be in. Okay? That's the one we want to be in. So I'm going to take this file here. I must say save as and I'm going to go to MAMP, htdocs, I am going to make a new folder called First, make a new folder and I must save this as index.php, save. It also nicely highlights it. So now if I hit refresh here you'll see that I got this folder name First and if I go into First, the slash, if I don't have anything there, it's as if I typed index.php because that's called, for a folder, index.php is one of the several default files that the web server looks at to load it. And so that's pretty much it. Away we go. We have successfully installed MAMP and changed the start up variables and written our first little program. Okay? Hope it helps.