Okay, so one of the things I talked about
in that previous section was how cool the PHP object model is. In particular, because it's aware
of sort of things like session and the kinds of stuff we
use in web applications. But now I want to talk about sort of
the classic things when we talk about object life cycle, about the definition
of the template, the creation and initialization of the objects, and
then the destruction of those objects. And we have special methods
that we get called. And we saw that in some
of the documentation. The constructor and the destructor, that
is a bit of code that you as the object builder get to say, you know what,
call me when you're setting me up or calling me when you're
throwing this thing away. We use constructors all the time so that we can get our data into the right
state when we've set things up. And the destructor is used less often. So like I said, the constructor
is there to get us started and set up some primary instance variables so
they have the right values. As we'll talk about in a bit, you can
sometimes have these hidden variables. They're non-public and
the constructor can set those values up to what they're supposed to be
when the thing first starts. So here's a little sample, we're not
going to do anything intelligent in there, we're just going to kind of show how this
constructor and destructor start working. And so, we're going to have a class,
our template, PartyAnimal. And it's going to have
a method called __construct, it's a specially named method. And then one called __destruct. And all we're saying is,
call us back when you're creating us. And then call us back when
you're destroying us. So let's run the code then, right? So we print out One and we say,
let's say we make a new PartyAnimal. And that says, run the constructor as
that moment of creation is happening. It's before the assignment
statement comes back with $x. So we say we're constructed. Then we say Two and
then we're constructed again. So we're running the second one. So we're creating $y now and
it constructs it. It makes the template,
then calls the constructor, and then give us back the object. That's the order in which it happens. And then we say Three,
and then we say Something, which just runs something, right? And so
now we're at the end of the program. So we did all these things, and
now we're running the end of the program. Except that this last line of the program. And so it's going to clean
all of these variables up. So $x is going to go away and
$y is going to go away. But before $x and $y go away, PHP calls
us back for $x and gets rid of that and then calls us back to get rid of $y when
there's no code writing whatsoever. Because at the end of a request response
cycle, when this file is all done, then it's going to garbage collect and
get rid of all these things. And so it's going to carefully call us,
call our destructor. And like I said, the constructor's
used a lot, the destructor, PHP is actually more consistent about calling
the destructor than other languages. Because we know when we're
done with the request in PHP. And so you tend not to see destructors
in other object oriented languages. Because the timing of the destructor
is not as predictable as it is in PHP. So again, object and instance. Each instances has its own
distinct variables, and you could have many
instances of the same class. And so we've been doing this all along. And so let's just talk about something
where we're going to set a variable in the constructor that's going to
control the behavior of this application. So now we're going to pass
a constructor parameter in. And that just becomes a parameter
into the __construct method. And we're going to do this to
set up this Hello translator. And we're going to tell it what
languages that we want to translate. And so we're going to pass that in. And PHP is going to build a Hello object. It's going to put a variable in here and
we're going to have a method in here. And now this is sort of empty and
now it's going to call the constructor. And the constructor's going to copy this
variable that it came in through lang into the instance. So 'es' is going to be in here. And then, after the constructor is done,
then this assignment finishes. And so we have variable $hi now, which $hi points now at this object that's
been constructed from the template. Except we put some data
in, in the constructor. We're using $this to save this one,
versus $lang is the one that came in. $this is the one that's
actually in the object. So that's what happens in this line. Constructor runs, we copy a little bit of
data from the parameter to the constructor into the object itself. And now we say hi-&gt;greet, which means we're just going to
find the greet code within $hi. That's this code right here,
greet, we're going to run it. $this points to this instance. And we can see what the current
language of the current object is. If it's French,
we're going to do one thing. If it's Spanish,
we're going to return 'Hola'. And we're going to return 'Hello'
if it's none of the above. And so in this case, because we got
'es' in this particular instance, we're returning 'Hola'. And so that's what prints out here. Okay, so we're passing stuff in, in
the constructor to kind of personalize, or unique-ize, that particular
object in the right way. So that's the constructor that's
called at the moment of creation. You create it, you construct it,
and then you give it back to us. And then we get to use it. The next thing we'll talk
about is inheritance. And that's how we take
the capabilities of one object and inherit them when we make a new object.