Welcome to building database
applications in PHP. If you have completed the first
two courses in this sequence, congratulations and welcome. They're essential. Now, as you work through
those two courses, you're probably like does this make sense,
why are we doing all of this? Well, this is the course where your
patience is going to be rewarded. Because we're going to take all
the things, learn this, learn that, learn this, those are all kind of like
Lego blocks that we put together. And now we're going to build this
foundation, and then build on top of it. So this is the time we're going to
bring all those concepts together. Now, the course does start quickly,
because we assume you know everything in those first two classes, HTML,
CSS, SQL, the basics of PHP. And you've got your
development environment up, and you know how to write code. I mean if you don't know any of that, you
really need to go back to those classes, because we're not going to slow down. We're going to be like, we're not teaching
PHP, we're like object running to PHP. We're moving quickly. So if you're ready, that's what you want. It's time to get to work and start
building really good applications and make them real and make them complete. So if that first thing seems weird, just
go back and take the other classes, right? So we just want you to know everything
before you start the course. Once we get started, we're going to
move very quickly through how we develop database applications and
sophisticated web features. So we're going to learn things that are so
essential, like cookies, and HTTP headers, and sessions, and how to log in,
and how to log out. That's the kind of stuff that
we really need to learn. And there's so much in this class that
even if you're not going to use PHP ultimately, whether it's Ruby On Rails, or
Java, or Node or whatever, you still need to know about sessions and HTTP headers
and request response cycle, etc., etc. So this is the moment where he's just
stopped learning like programming languages and really start
learning about web applications. And so we finish in this class with CRUD. We have sort of slowly but
surely built an application. We learned more about how
applications are put together. We're connecting PHP and SQL. And then we're sort of done when we create
what is sort of the basic essential web application, the CRUD application,
Create, Read, Update, and Delete. Those are the four things
that databases do. We'll build a user interface to
do each of those four things. And then from that point on all of
the web applications that you develop are going to be variations on that theme,
right? So this is the moment,
at the end of this class is the moment where you're like now
you're a web developer. And the rest of this is just details
about what language you are using and what features. And so, I'm really excited
that you got this far, but I'm also even more excited when
you get done in this class. So again, thanks for interest in
the class, and we'll see you on the net.